README.md, before:

# Northcoders Learners API

This is the API for adding/editing/deleting learners from our system.

## Running the app

### Running with docker

You can run the application with docker by firstly building the image

```
docker build -t learners-api .
```

And then running the container:

```
docker run -p 8080:8080 learners-api
```

### Running locally

Alternatively, you can run locally if you have Java and Maven installed locally.

Instructions have been tested against Java version `openjdk 17.0.6` and Maven `3.8.4`

To run the application use the command

```
mvn spring-boot:run
```

## Testing the app

To run the tests for the API you can run:

```
mvn test
```

## App config

The application config is stored in [application.yml](./src/main/resources/application.yml) file.

We've shared a sample config for a Postgres database as well.

## Metrics and health

We've added Spring actuator and enabled prometheus so there is a [health endpoint](http://localhost:8080/actuator/health) and [prometheus metrics](http://localhost:8080/actuator/prometheus)

## Work in progress aspects

### API Docs

Coming soon....

We'll produce some [Swagger API docs](https://swagger.io/ when we get a chance

Note to self: Follow through Swagger and Spring [blog](https://www.baeldung.com/spring-rest-openapi-documentation)

### Notifications

We've not hooked up any notification service just yet such as sending an email when a new user signs-up. 

We wondered around using Amazon SES to send emails and something like SQS to put a message on a queue that an email should be sent.

Just need to chat to cloud engineering team

Commit message:

feat: update README with link to main repo

README.md, after:

# Northcoders Learners API

This is a backend app for use with my final group project for Northcoders bootcamp - please see [THIS REPO](https://github.com/1point21/nc-ce-final-project-env).

**NOTE**: This repo was provided for our final group project by Northcoders. All code was written by Northcoders, except for the `Jenkinsfile`, which our team added for the CI/CD pipelines. Changes were made to environment files and `Dockerfile` as required for build and testing.

The following README was provided for us by Northcoders.

---

This is the API for adding/editing/deleting learners from our system.

## Running the app

### Running with docker

You can run the application with docker by firstly building the image

```
docker build -t learners-api .
```

And then running the container:

```
docker run -p 8080:8080 learners-api
```

### Running locally

Alternatively, you can run locally if you have Java and Maven installed locally.

Instructions have been tested against Java version `openjdk 17.0.6` and Maven `3.8.4`

To run the application use the command

```
mvn spring-boot:run
```

## Testing the app

To run the tests for the API you can run:

```
mvn test
```

## App config

The application config is stored in [application.yml](./src/main/resources/application.yml) file.

We've shared a sample config for a Postgres database as well.

## Metrics and health

We've added Spring actuator and enabled prometheus so there is a [health endpoint](http://localhost:8080/actuator/health) and [prometheus metrics](http://localhost:8080/actuator/prometheus)

## Work in progress aspects

### API Docs

Coming soon....

We'll produce some [Swagger API docs](https://swagger.io/ when we get a chance

Note to self: Follow through Swagger and Spring [blog](https://www.baeldung.com/spring-rest-openapi-documentation)

### Notifications

We've not hooked up any notification service just yet such as sending an email when a new user signs-up. 

We wondered around using Amazon SES to send emails and something like SQS to put a message on a queue that an email should be sent.

Just need to chat to cloud engineering team
